# RITSEC CTF 2021

Okay I waited too long before finishing up this writeup and lost my CTF VM, so I don't have any screenshots nor challenge files to redo them :(

## [Forensics] InceptionCTF

> The purpose of this CTF challenge is to identify common methods of  hiding malicious files and code. In most cases adversaries will attempt  to evade defenses in many cases by masquerading, hiding files, and more. There are five directories like the five levels in the movie Inception, Reality -> Van Chase -> The Hotel -> Snow Fortress ->  Limbo. You will find one flag in each of the levels, that flag will also be the password to extract the next directory. 
>
> Requirements: 
>
> - You must have 7zip installed
> - Drop the InceptionCTF.7z on the Desktop as  “InceptionCTF”
> - Use the option “Extract to "\” for the CTF to function  properly Missing either of the above may result in complications which  may cause issues when attempting to find flags. 
>
> NOTE: These challenges have a flag format of RITSEC{}

### Dream 1

> We have to get to their subconscious first, look for a hidden text file  within the directory “Reality” this flag will unlock the next directory.

- Unzip the archive `reality.7z`, there's a file named `Subconscious.txt` containing the text `{dnalmaerD}CESTIR`, reversint the string gives us the flag.

- (When I first did this challenge, the reversed flag wasn't validating the challenge, I needed the next flag. This bug was fixed later.)

- Flag: RITSEC{Dreamland}

### Dream 2

> Unfortunately, the subconscious isn’t enough for this mission, we have  to kidnap Fischer we need to go further into the system of the mind. Use the flag found to edit the PowerShell script, entering the Flag in line three in-between the single quotes. Run the PowerShell script and wait  for it to complete its actions.

- Unlocking the archive `Vanchase.7z`, we find a file named `Kidnap.txt` containing `52 49 54 53 45 43 7b 57 61 74 65 72 55 6e 64 65 72 54 68 65 42 72 69 64 67 65 7d` converting it from hexadecimal to ASCII gives us the flag.

- Flag: RITSEC{WaterUnderTheBridge}

### Dream 3

> While the first two steps were easy it’s all hard from here on out,  ThePointMan is the most crucial role of the mission he has to be  presentable but without giving away our intentions. Use Alternate Dream  State to find the flag before the kick.

- Unlocking the archive `TheHotel.7z`, we find the file `ThePointman.txt`  containing `NTIgNDkgNTQgNTMgNDUgNDMgN2IgNDYgNDAgMjEgMjEgNjkgNmUgNjcgNDUgNmMgNjUgNzYgNDAgNzQgNmYgNzIgN2Q`. Decoding the base64 text gives us the flag.

- Flag: RITSEC{F@!!ingElev@tor}

### Dream 4

> Don’t lose yourself within the  dreams, it’s critical to have your totem. Take a close look at the facts of the file presented to you. Please note the flag is marked with an  “RITSEC=” rather than {} due to encoding limitations.
>
> The flag will need to be converted to RITSEC{}

- Unlocking the archive `Snowfortress.7z`, we find the file `passwordPath.exe`. 

- Using `string` on the exe gives us :

```html
<html>
<body>
 
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
<head>
    <title>Non, je ne regrette rien</title>
<HTA:APPLICATION
  APPLICATIONNAME="Non, je ne regrette rien"
  ID="Inception"
  VERSION="1.0"
  SCROLL="no"/>
  
<style type="text/css">
</head>
    <div id="feature">
            <div id="content
                </style>
                <h1 id="unavailable" class="loading">Building Dreams....</h1>
                <script type="text/javascript" language="javascript">
                    function RunFile() {
                    WshShell = new ActiveXObject("WScript.Shell");
                    WshShell.Run("notepad %USERPROFILE%/Desktop/InceptionCTF/Reality/VanChase/TheHotel/ThePointMan.txt", 1, false);
                    }
                </script>
        </div>
    </div>
<body>
    <input type="button" value="Implant Inception Here" onclick="RunFile();"/>
    <p style="color:white;">
-.. .-. . .- -- ...
..-. . . .-..
.-. . .- .-..
.-- .... . -.
.-- . .----. .-. .
.. -.
- .... . -- .-.-.-
.. - .----. ...
--- -. .-.. -.--
.-- .... . -.
.-- .
.-- .- -.- .
..- .--.
- .... .- -
.-- .
.-. . .- .-.. .. --.. .
... --- -- . - .... .. -. --.
.-- .- ...
.- -.-. - ..- .- .-.. .-.. -.--
... - .-. .- -. --. . .-.-.-
.-. .. - ... . -.-. -...- -.. .. ...- . .-. ... .. --- -. 
</p>
</body>
</body>
</html>
```

- Decoding the morse code gives us the flag.

- Flag: RITSEC{DIVERSION}

### Dream 5

> We’re almost there, we just need Fischer to open the safe! That top looks awfully weird though.

- Unlocking the archive `Limbo.7z`, we find a JPEG named `Inception.jpg`.

- Using `strings`on the image gives us the base64 encoded text `UklUU0VDezUyODQ5MX0g`. Decoding this text gives us the flag.

- Flag: RITSEC{528491}



## [Rev/Bin] Snek

> No step on snek.

- For this challenge, we get a compiled Python executable. Using [Uncompyle6](https://pypi.org/project/uncompyle6/) on the file, we can see the code

```python
"""
Written for RITSEC CTF 2021
Author: knif3
Flag: RITSEC{}

TODO: Finish this challenge
"""

class d(object):

    def __init__(self, password):
        self.password = password.encode()
        self.decrypt = [97, 98, 99, 100, 101, 102, 103, 104, 105, 106, 107, 108, 109, 110, 111, 112, 113, 114, 115, 116, 117, 118, 119, 120, 121, 122, 65, 66, 67, 68, 69, 70, 71, 72, 73, 74, 75, 76, 77, 78, 79, 80, 81, 82, 83, 84, 85, 86, 87, 88, 89, 90, 95, 82, 83, 123, 97, 108, 108, 95, 104, 105, 36, 36, 95, 97, 110, 100, 95, 110, 48, 95, 98, 105, 116, 51, 125]

    def __eq__(self, other):
        if self.password == bytes(self.decrypt):
            print('!flag')
            return True
        return False


x = input('Enter my name: ')
a = d(x)
if a == x:
    print('IS_THIS_THE_FLAG??')
    print('NOPE')
else:
    print('WRONG')
```

- Decoding the password from decimal to ASCII gives us the string `abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyzABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ_RS{all_hi$$_and_n0_bit3}`

- Flag: RS{all_hi$$_and_n0_bit3}

## [Forensics] Please Click All The Things

> This challenge is the start of a series of challenges. The purpose of this CTF challenge is to bring real world phishing attachments to the challengers and attempt to find flags (previously executables or malicious domains) within the macros. This is often a process used in IR teams and becomes an extremely valuable skill. In this challenge we’ve  brought to the table a malicious html file, GandCrab/Ursnif sample, and a IceID/Bokbot sample. We’ve rewritten the code to not contain malicious  execution however system changes may still occur when executing, also some of the functionalities have been snipped and will likely not expose itself via dynamic analysis.
>
> Outlook helps, with proper licensing to access necessary features. Otherwise oledump or similar would also help but isn’t necessary. CyberChef is the ideal tool to use for decoding

### Please Click All The Things 1

> Start with the HTML file and let’s move our way up, open and or inspect the HTML file provide in the message file. There is only one flag in this document.

- We extract the `.msg` files using [extract-msg](https://pypi.org/project/extract-msg/).

- We can now open the HTML file `BeginnerRITSEC.html`, containing at the end

```html
<head> 
<flag="UklUU0VDe0gzcjMhdCEkfQ==">
</body>
  </html>
```

- Decoding the base64 string gives us the flag.

- Flag: RITSEC{H3r3!t!$}

### Please Click All The Things 2

> GandCrab/Ursnif are dangerous types of campaigns and malware, macros are usually the entry point, see what you can find, there are two flags in this document.

- Opening the `gandcrrab.docm`file with LibreOffice, we can go look into the Macros and find the flag.

- Flag: RITSEC{M@CROS}

### Please Click All The Things 3

> Stepping it up to IceID/Bokbot, this challenge is like the previous challenge but requires some ability to read and understand coding in addition to some additional decoding skills, there are two flags in this document. 

- Opening the `3.docm` file with LibreOffice, we can go look into the Macros and find the following string `EVGFRP{E0GG1ATZ@YP0Q3}`.

- We quickly see that the flag is ROT13 encoded.

- Flag: RITSEC{R0TT1NGM@LC0D3}

## [Forensics] Parcel

> That's a lot of magick

- Extracting the gzip to a file, we can see that there are many base64 encoded text. Once decoded we can see that they contain PNG headers. Using an [online tool](https://base64.guru/converter/decode/image/png) to convert base64 directly into images, we get many different pieces. Rearranging them (like a jigsaw puzzle) gives us the flag.

- Flag: RS{Im_doing_a_v1rtual_puzzl3}

## [WEB] Dababyweb

> Dababy wanted to share a message, but he seemed to put it too high up...
>
> 34.72.118.158:6284

- Navigating the site, we immediately see that the vulnerability here is a LFI.

  http://34.72.118.158:6284/fun1.php?file=../flag.txt

- Flag: RS{J3TS0N_M4D3_4N0TH3R_0N3}

## [MISC] Corruption

> It seems that this remote is somehow corrupted. See if we can somehow get the data...
>
> git://git.ritsec.club:9418/corruption.git

- After many attempts at cloning the repo (solution was `git init` --> `git set origin` --> `git fetch`).

- Running `git log`doesn't work so we can check what the problem is with `git fsck`

```
dangling blob c09b32987380e63e93d93f699e1dbfeae839f8e2
```

- Running `git show c09b32987380e63e93d93f699e1dbfeae839f8e2` gives us the flag.

- Flag: RS{se3_that_wasnt_s0_bad_just_som3_git_plumbing}

## [Forensics] 1597

> ... as in https://xkcd.com/1597/
>
> git://git.ritsec.club:7000/1597.git

- For this challenge we clone the repo, list the branches (`git branch -a`), head into the `!flag` branch (`git checkout !flag`) and cat the file `flag.txt`.

- Flag: RS{git_is_just_a_tre3_with_lots_of_branches}

## [Forensics] Blob

> Ha. Blob. Did you get the reference?
>
> http://git.ritsec.club:7000/blob.git/

- For this challenge we clone the repo, and list the objects (`git rev-list --objects --all`). This command gives 5 hashes that we can check with `git show <ID>`.

- The flag can be found in `d0644363aa853a17c9672cefff587580a43cf45e`

```bash
$ git show d0644363aa853a17c9672cefff587580a43cf45e
RS{refs_can_b3_secret_too}
```

- Flag: RS{refs_can_b3_secret_too}
